So let's look now at another interface example that will test your recognition of functional interfaces,
we need to create a new class in our Lab Expressions project that we call this one functional test.
So this code consists of an interface functional that declares three abstract methods.
The functional test class moving down with its main method that assigns that lambda expression and assigns
it a local variable, then executes the lambda expression in a system that print statement.
The code obviously can pass.
If we run this now.
You can see the airport at the bottom of the screen.
Does this confuse you?
How can a functional interface if we look at it again?
With three abstract methods be a functional interface, we'll look more closely at the methods declared
in the interface.
What do they have in common?
The signatures match signatures of public methods, but Javadoc Languedoc object.
As it turns out, interfaces implicitly declare abstract methods corresponding to the public methods
of object.
Explicitly declaring these methods abstract, as cited in this example, has no effect, and those methods
are not included when considering an interface functional.
I want to review again what happens when you create a default method in an interface that inherits the
method as an abstract method we did in your class.
This will call this lambda extras.
But so the first thing you'll notice is that the code doesn't compile more on that shortly, looking
at the code starting at the top, we've got an interface named confusable using type string that extends
a comparator using top string.
The important method in the comprehensive interface, as you know, is COMPAR here have created a default
method.
Compare with the same signature, then created a crazy algorithm that ensures I never get the same result
twice and compare.
So I've added a system to that statement.
This I could discover when this method is executed because we've got a class confused that implements
the confusable interface.
This class has got an attribute, name, name there, a constructed, a populated.
We've got a two string method there.
We're using that as the principal face of the object.
We've also got a method called Duminy, which for the first test isn't used.
Then we've got a lambda extras class.
With its main method, which declares a local variable of type confusable, and there are signs that
Lambrew expression to it, it creates a list of confused objects that attempts to sort the list using
confusable in place of co-operator.
As I mentioned, this code currently doesn't compile.
We hover over that.
The target method failed, they've given you a similar example in the last video.
The reason is that the default method compare in confusable up here.
As disqualified confusable as a functional interface, so let's add another abstract method in this
confusable interface.
That's fixed our compiler, Arendelle, so get into the code again, it's now valid.
And if you run this code.
Reached the airport, as you can see on the screen there, the method, this list can be printed in
any order and the number of print staples will vary due to the random nature of the COMPAR method.
They say we've got a different result there.
So executing against him during Botterill times will get different results.
Therefore, this airport, you say that although I passed the lambda expression in using an expression
that would match an expression for the COMPAR method, the default method of confusable was the code
that's actually executed.
The let's test something here.
Let's change confusable here to comparator.
So this confirms the lambda expression, a a comparator is used.
So when you look at a code segment, which is testing your knowledge of functional interfaces, be careful
to firstly check whether the interface extends another.
Does it extend more than one interface?
How many abstract methods does it inherit?
Is it a folk method in the sub interface overriding an abstract method?
Secondly, is it explicitly defining abstract methods that match Javadoc length or object public methods?
This can be ignored when determining if the interface as a single abstract method the third nor static
in private methods.
Unless the question has a compile time error responses can override an inherited abstract method with
a static method or a private method.
So let's say in the video here next, you'll be presented with a couple of questions that will test
your knowledge about functional interfaces and the structure and usage of lambda expressions.
Good luck and I'll catch up with you after that to start our review of Java's built in functional interfaces
in the next section.